# Leetcode

I've recently been getting more into the leetcode grind. I'm not exactly happy with where I'm at, so I wanted to take a while to analyze how I've been feeling and hopefully come to a conclusion on what I should do next with leetcode.

With leetcode, I've noticed a really common pattern. I tend to pick up leetcode when I'm 1) feeling behind in terms of work and cs skills, and 2) not feeling creatively motivated. Both of these conditions have to be met for me to start getting back into the grind. If I'm not feeling behind, I won't pick it up because I generally view leetcode as a necessary evil (which may not be a fair assessment, I'll get into that later). If I am feeling creatively motivated, I'd rather take a class, or work on a project. Leetcode allows me to be "productive" without thought, which is basically just being busy. I'll get more into that later.

So since I've recently gotten back into the grind, it seems like both of these conditions have been met for me. Let's unpack them a bit.

### Feeling Behind
When I really think about it, I'm not sure I like applying this phrase to this situation. It inherently implies comparison, especially comparison to other people. Comparison here isn't a good thing, because I generally want different things than other people. It isn't really helpful at all to look at where other people are, unless it is to use them as a point of reference to where I want to be. When I "feel behind", it's generally more of a fuzzy feeling of "behindness", where I feel like I'm not doing enough of *something*. So, naturally, I have to do more of *something*. What that *something* is isn't usually as important to me, which is where I think my fuzzy behind feeling goes wrong. Rather than identifying a specific point of weakness I have that is preventing me from being where someone else I see is, I'm just doing random things to feel *busy* rather than actually do work. This is obviously pretty bad, because if I'm not careful I can get caught up in the business and make no real progress(1).

Nonetheless, no matter how much I explain it to myself, I can definitely feel myself falling into that trap even now. I think it's due to a few reasons:
1. Realizing I only have 1 major internship left
	- I'm worried about getting railroaded into tier 2 stuff that I'm not really happy with. I'm also worried about not getting into a good enough grad school, even though at this point I'm not sure that internships are the best way to approach that (2)
2. Worrying if I'm "good enough" to work at a top company
	- This one sounds kind of stupid, but it's definitely how I feel. I'm not sure if I'm well-versed enough in CS to work at a true CS tech company. I think my biggest problem right now would be getting my foot into the door, which is where the leetcode grind comes in. I think once I'm in I can figure pretty much anything out, but I definitely have to convince them to let me in.
3. Noticing I'm going to be falling behind a bit compared to my peers in terms of classes
	- I'm pretty unhappy I won't be able to take that analysis class. I think that could really help my math chops and finally allow me to start connecting mathematics to ML/AI, and help me to read papers at least a bit easier.
	- I will be in Korea, which will be a whole different experience for me. I think at the end of the day, I'd rather do something like Korea when I'm younger. When I'm 40, which am I going to be happier that I did? So this reason isn't too big, but it definitely still applies.

Out of these, I really only consider the first one to be a valid reason. I really do need to grind a bit more to get a better last internship, both for looks and for my own personal development. 


### Creatively Exhausted
This one is a real problem for me right now, as it has been for the past semester (maybe even all of sophomore year) and the summer. It really boils down to the problem of me not wanting to do too much extra work outside of what is required and laid out for me (like school and an internship). If either of those were teaching me a ton, then it wouldn't be too big of a problem; gaining knowledge right now is also important to me. Unfortunately, neither school nor Lockheed has been providing me with a substantial amount of knowledge that substitutes for creation.

At school, I think my major problem was probably burnout. It's hard to go through school when it doesn't align with what you want to be doing. Tedious assignments and worrying about grades really brings down my mood and energy for focusing on things outside of school. (3) I never felt like I had a stopping point, especially when it came to subjects like ochem. If in doubt, I would just study for a subject like that. That ate up a lot of time and was definitely sub-optimal in terms of ROI, but it's already happened. I'm going to make sure it isn't so bad in the future.

At work, I think I'm wasting some of my creativity on the work itself. Work like this is really dangerous; it's just easy enough such that you are consistently getting nice dopamine hits, but it's just difficult enough such that you always feel like you accomplished something at least meagerly worthwhile. When I look back at the internship, I think I'm going to value my experience I gained on things like GNC and sensor fusion a lot more than anything I'm getting from VISE. After my workday, I'm usually too tired to do anything substantially creative, and during the weekends I'm so often busy, and don't make any time for creative endeavors.


## Leetcode
Now that I've figured out the root causes of my push towards leetcode, I'm already seeing that I'm probably not grinding it for all the right reasons. Gaining access to better internships (4) is definitely the most valid reason. With regards to creativity, it's pretty obvious to me that my leetcode grind is in part a way to hide from the difficulty of actually thinking creatively. Something like leetcode definitely requires work, but it's a more straightforward task that requires only local technical creativity. Ideas, on the other hand, take connections between different fields and thinking outside the box.

I think my next steps should be to focus on leetcode only as a tool to get the next internship. Rather than grind problems, I need to learn the underlying pattern. I'm pretty good at SAT and word problems, because I can generally peel away the extraneous stuff and get at the heart of the problem. All problems like these have a sort of shape to them, and based on the shape you can figure out how to solve them. I think exposure to enough of these kinds of shapes with leetcode will be really beneficial to me, because it'll allow for transfer learning between problems, rather than me just memorizing solutions.

### How to not be a task monkey
[[Task monkeys]] are something I think about a lot. I think I'm being one right now with my current approach to leetcode. Task monkeys approach problems as atomic objects; once you're done with the problem, it's completely done, and there's no more use for it. Therefore, you should take the path of least resistance to get to the goal, because at the end it's path-independent.

Leetcode isn't something I should be task monkeying. In fact, task monkeying something like leetcode is a sure way to waste all of my time. I don't really learn very much at all solving little problems like that, because there are hundreds of problems I might have to solve, and task monkeys can't extend their knowledge and apply it elsewhere.

Rather than just finish a problem and feel good that I'm done, I should look at the very deepest algorithm that I used in it, whether it be BFS, or DP, or something like that. I need to look at the deepest part because that's the part that's more likely to transfer to other problems. I should also take some time at the beginning to really think about what I think the deepest layer of this problem would be. I should have something out to write with, so I can do real planning. It's so easy to just task monkey and iteratively solve these leetcode problems, spamming submissions and fixing problems as they arise, rather than get a good clean solution finished. The worst part is that I can even tell when I'm spamming, but I sunk cost it and just finish it out anyways. The worst one recently was with the interval joining one, which had a super easy and intuitive solution that I just didn't even try to think about before jumping into my dumb cases and making 20 if statements.


# Okay

Okay. So I think I feel better about the whole leetcode thing. It'll be another writing to figure out what I should actually be doing, but I'm definitely happy with the conclusion I've come to here. I also have a few good ideas to write about next, which is exciting.


<sub>1: I might even be doing that at Lockheed. I definitely need to analyze my internship and what I'm doing with it soon. I'm worried it's just been a bunch of busywork that I've enjoyed but haven't extracted much out of.</sub>

<sub>2: Need to write about the other things I need to do to get into stanford.</sub>

<sub>3: I want to write about how much I should weight grades vs how much I should weight doing other things.</sub>

<sub>4: What is a "better" internship?</sub>
